Terraform is the infrastructure as code offering from HashiCorp.
It is a tool for building, changing, and managing infrastructure in a safe, repeatable way. Operators and Infrastructure teams can use Terraform to manage environments with a configuration language called the HashiCorp Configuration Language (HCL) for human-readable, automated deployments.

Day to Day life. Infrastructure means buildings, roads, Flyovers, bridges
IT world Infrastructure means
    compute instance
    Routers
    Switches
    load balancers
    Storages
    Databases

Infrastructure as Code
    It is the process of managing infrastructure in a file or files rather than manually configuring resources in a user interface.
    Terraform allows operators to use HCL to author files containing definitions of their desired resources on almost any provider (AWS, GCP, GitHub, Docker, OCI etc) and automates the creation of those resources at the time of apply.

Workflows
    Scope : Confirm what resources need to be created for a given project.
    Author : Create the configuration file in HCL based on the scoped parameters
    Initialize : Init will download the correct provider plug-ins for the project. terraform Init
    Plan & Apply : Run terraform plan to verify creation process and then terraform apply to create real resources as well as state file that compares future changes in your configuration files to what actually exists in your deployment environment.

Advantages of Terraform
    Platform Agnostic
        can manage a heterogenous environment (AWS, GCP, OCI etc) with the same workflow by creating a configuration file
    State Management
        Terraform uses this local state to create plans and make changes to your infrastructure
        Terraform state is the source of truth by which configuration changes are measured.
        If any changes is made to the configration file, terraform compares those with the state file to determine what changes result in a new resource.
    Operator Confidence
        terraform apply, the user will be prompted to review the proposed changes and must affirm the changes or else Terraform will not apply the proposed plan.

Installation is quiet easy. Follow the path https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html
    Installation notes in the windows and Linux


terraform --version


terraform -install-autocomplete

Provider
The provider block configures the named provider, in our case aws, which is responsible for creating and managing resources. A provider is a plugin that Terraform uses to translate the API interactions with the service. A provider is responsible for understanding API interactions and exposing resources. Because Terraform can interact with any API, you can represent almost any infrastructure type as a resource in Terraform.

The profile attribute in your provider block refers Terraform to the AWS credentials stored in your AWS Config File, which you created when you configured the AWS CLI. HashiCorp recommends that you never hard-code credentials into *.tf configuration files. We are explicitly defining the default AWS config profile here to illustrate how Terraform should access sensitive credentials.

Multiple provider blocks can exist if a Terraform configuration manages resources from different providers. You can even use multiple providers together. For example you could pass the ID of an AWS instance to a monitoring resource from DataDog.


Resource 
The resource block defines a piece of infrastructure. A resource might be a physical component such as an EC2 instance, or it can be a logical resource such as a Heroku application.

The resource block has two strings before the block: the resource type and the resource name. 

Init
When you create a new configuration — or check out an existing configuration from version control — you need to initialize the directory with terraform init.

Terraform uses a plugin-based architecture to support hundreds of infrastructure and service providers. Initializing a configuration directory downloads and installs providers used in the configuration, which in this case is the aws provider. Subsequent commands will use local settings and data during initialization.


Inspect the current state using terraform show.


Terraform has a built in command called terraform state for advanced state management. For example, if you have a long state file, you may want a list of the resources in state, which you can get by using the list subcommand.



Unlike many other objects in the Terraform language, a provider block may be omitted if its contents would otherwise be empty. Terraform assumes an empty default configuration for any provider that is not explicitly configured.

Each time a new provider is added to configuration -- either explicitly via a provider block or by adding a resource from that provider -- Terraform must initialize the provider before it can be used. Initialization downloads and installs the provider's plugin so that it can later be executed.




terraform {
    required_providers {
        oci             = "= 3.60"
        }
}


to enforce the version of provider

= (or no operator): exact version equality

!=: version not equal

>, >=, <, <=: version comparison, where "greater than" is a larger version number

~>: pessimistic constraint operator, constraining both the oldest and newest version allowed. For example, ~> 0.9 is equivalent to >= 0.9, < 1.0, and ~> 0.8.4, is equivalent to >= 0.8.4, < 0.9

terraform init -upgrade

alias meta-argument to an alias name to use for each additional configuration. 

resource "aws_instance" "foo" {
  provider = aws.west

  # ...
}


.terraformrc in home directory or location set TF_CLI_CONFIG_FILE environment variable.

plugin_cache_dir = "$HOME/.terraform.d/plugin-cache"


# Need to study from Purpose of Terraform State